---
title: "Transformers"
date: "2020-08-09 16:19"

tags: ["@?physics-gcse", "@?ankify"]
---

##### What do transformers do??
Transformers change the size of the potential difference of an alternating current.

##### How do transformers work??
Transformers have two coils of wire, a primary and a secondary coil, joined with an iron core. Think of it like two circles around the edges of a hollowed-out square. When an alternating potential difference is applied across the primary coil, the iron core magnetises and demagnetises quickly. This changing magnetic field induces an alternating current and potential difference in the secondary coil, thanks to [[The Generator Effect]].

It's like transferring the current from the primary coil to secondary coil.

##### Why do we use transformers??
Transformers are useful because they allow you to change the size of the potential difference between the two coils. If the primary coil has 10 turns and the secondary coil has 20 turns, then a 10v potential difference will become a 20v potential difference.

##### What is a step up transformer??
A step up transformer is a transformer which increases the potential difference applied to it. This is done by having more turns in the secondary coil than in the first one.

##### What is a step down transformer??
A step down transformer is a transformer which decreases the potential difference applied to it. This is done by having fewer turns in the secondary coil than in the first one.

##### What is the transformer equation??
$$
\frac{V_p}{V_s} = \frac{n_p}{n_s}
\text{  or  }
\frac{V_s}{V_p} = \frac{n_s}{n_p}
$$

Where:

* $V_p$ is the input potential difference (V)
* $V_s$ is the output potential difference (V)
* $n_p$ is the number of turns on the primary coil
* $n_s$ is the number of turns of the secondary coil

This equation tells us that the increase in potential difference is proportional to the increase in number of turns.

##### What is the equation for input and output power of a transformer, assuming they're 100% efficient??
$$
V_s I_s = V_p I_p
$$

Where:

* $V_s$ is the potential difference across the secondary coil (V)
* $I_s$ is the current through the secondary coil (A)
* $V_p$ is the potential difference across the primary coil (V)
* $I_p$ is the current through the primary coil (A)

This equation tells us that input power is equal to output power for transformers.

##### Why are generators used in the National Grid??
Generators are used in the national grid to increase and decrease the potential difference of our electricity. After electricity is generated by a power station, step up tranformers increase the voltage to around 400,000V and reduce the current. This minimises energy loss because less current means less energy is lost through heating the wire. The voltage is then stepped back down to around 230V in order to be used safely.

##### A transformer has 16 turns on its primary coil, 4 turns on its secondary coil and an output potential difference of 20V. What is the potential difference across the primary coil??
80V.
